README.md, before:

![Logo](admin/notification-manager.png)
# ioBroker.notification-manager

[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/iobroker.notification-manager.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/iobroker.notification-manager)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/iobroker.notification-manager.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/iobroker.notification-manager)
![Number of Installations](https://iobroker.live/badges/notification-manager-installed.svg)
![Current version in stable repository](https://iobroker.live/badges/notification-manager-stable.svg)

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/iobroker.notification-manager.png?downloads=true)](https://nodei.co/npm/iobroker.notification-manager/)

**Tests:** ![Test and Release](https://github.com/foxriver76/ioBroker.notification-manager/workflows/Test%20and%20Release/badge.svg)

## notification-manager adapter for ioBroker
Manage ioBroker notifications, e.g. by sending them as messages

### General description
This adapter allows to redirect the ioBroker internal `Notifications` to messenger adapters which support 
the `Notification System`. If you are missing an adapter, please open a ticket on the corresponding adapter.

### Requirements for messaging adapters
Please set the `common.supportedMessages.notifications` flag to `true` in your `io-package.json`.

Whenever a new notification should be delivered via the messaging adapter, `notification-manager` will send a message
to the configured instance. 

The messages consist of the command `sendNotification` and a message with the following structure: 

```json
{
  "host": "system.host.moritz-ThinkPad-P16-Gen-1",
  "scope": {
    "name": "System-Benachrichtigungen",
    "description": "Diese Benachrichtigungen werden vom ioBroker-System erfasst und weisen auf Probleme hin, die überprüft und behoben werden sollten."
  },
  "category": {
    "instances": {
      "system.adapter.backitup.0": {
        "messages": [
          {
            "message": "Restart loop detected",
            "ts": 1684074961226
          }
        ]
      },
      "system.adapter.notification-manager.0": {
        "messages": [
          {
            "message": "Restart loop detected",
            "ts": 1684075183094
          }
        ]
      }
    },
    "description": "Eine Adapterinstanz stürzt beim Start häufig ab und wurde aus diesem Grund gestoppt. Die Protokolldatei muss vor dem Neustart der Instanz überprüft werden.",
    "name": "Probleme mit häufig abstürzenden Adapterinstanzen",
    "severity": "alert"
  }
}
```

Where `category.instances` shows the affected adapter instances for this notification. 
Additionally, the category has an i18n description and an i18n name. 
The same properties exist for the scope of the category. Additionally, the affected host is included.

After sending the notification, the `notification-manager` expects an answer with the property `{ sent: true }` 
if the messaging adapter was able to deliver the notification, else it should respond with `{ sent: false }`.

## Changelog
<!--
    Placeholder for the next version (at the beginning of the line):
    ### **WORK IN PROGRESS**
-->
### 0.1.0 (2023-06-02)
* (foxriver76) initial release

## License
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2023 foxriver76 <moritz.heusinger@gmail.com>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Icon made by "Good Ware" from www.flaticon.com

Commit message:

chore: release v0.1.1
* (foxriver76) added possibility to send test messages from web interface (closes #1)

README.md, after:

![Logo](admin/notification-manager.png)
# ioBroker.notification-manager

[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/iobroker.notification-manager.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/iobroker.notification-manager)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/iobroker.notification-manager.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/iobroker.notification-manager)
![Number of Installations](https://iobroker.live/badges/notification-manager-installed.svg)
![Current version in stable repository](https://iobroker.live/badges/notification-manager-stable.svg)

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/iobroker.notification-manager.png?downloads=true)](https://nodei.co/npm/iobroker.notification-manager/)

**Tests:** ![Test and Release](https://github.com/foxriver76/ioBroker.notification-manager/workflows/Test%20and%20Release/badge.svg)

## notification-manager adapter for ioBroker
Manage ioBroker notifications, e.g. by sending them as messages

### General description
This adapter allows to redirect the ioBroker internal `Notifications` to messenger adapters which support 
the `Notification System`. If you are missing an adapter, please open a ticket on the corresponding adapter.

### Requirements for messaging adapters
Please set the `common.supportedMessages.notifications` flag to `true` in your `io-package.json`.

Whenever a new notification should be delivered via the messaging adapter, `notification-manager` will send a message
to the configured instance. 

The messages consist of the command `sendNotification` and a message with the following structure: 

```json
{
  "host": "system.host.moritz-ThinkPad-P16-Gen-1",
  "scope": {
    "name": "System-Benachrichtigungen",
    "description": "Diese Benachrichtigungen werden vom ioBroker-System erfasst und weisen auf Probleme hin, die überprüft und behoben werden sollten."
  },
  "category": {
    "instances": {
      "system.adapter.backitup.0": {
        "messages": [
          {
            "message": "Restart loop detected",
            "ts": 1684074961226
          }
        ]
      },
      "system.adapter.notification-manager.0": {
        "messages": [
          {
            "message": "Restart loop detected",
            "ts": 1684075183094
          }
        ]
      }
    },
    "description": "Eine Adapterinstanz stürzt beim Start häufig ab und wurde aus diesem Grund gestoppt. Die Protokolldatei muss vor dem Neustart der Instanz überprüft werden.",
    "name": "Probleme mit häufig abstürzenden Adapterinstanzen",
    "severity": "alert"
  }
}
```

Where `category.instances` shows the affected adapter instances for this notification. 
Additionally, the category has an i18n description and an i18n name. 
The same properties exist for the scope of the category. Additionally, the affected host is included.

After sending the notification, the `notification-manager` expects an answer with the property `{ sent: true }` 
if the messaging adapter was able to deliver the notification, else it should respond with `{ sent: false }`.

## Changelog
<!--
    Placeholder for the next version (at the beginning of the line):
    ### **WORK IN PROGRESS**
-->
### 0.1.1 (2023-07-04)
* (foxriver76) added possibility to send test messages from web interface (closes #1)

### 0.1.0 (2023-06-02)
* (foxriver76) initial release

## License
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2023 foxriver76 <moritz.heusinger@gmail.com>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Icon made by "Good Ware" from www.flaticon.com
